Blueprint deprecation warning docs (#4032)
canonical/multipass: docs/how-to-guides/manage-instances/launch-customized-virtual-machines-with-multipass-and-cloud-init.md

(how-to-guides-manage-instances-launch-customized-virtual-machines-with-multipass-and-cloud-init)=
# Launch customized virtual machines with Multipass and cloud-init

> If you want to set up a virtual machine with a specific environment or configuration, you can use the launch command along with a custom cloud-init YAML file and an optional post-launch health check to ensure everything is working correctly.

Reviewer: idem

> If you want to set up a virtual machine with a specific environment or configuration, you can use the launch command along with a custom cloud-init YAML file and an optional post-launch health check to ensure everything is working correctly.

Reviewer: Make this a declarative sentence instead of a conditional. i.e. You can set up instances with a customized environment or configuration using the `launch` command along with a custom...

> Below are some common examples of using cloud-init YAML and Multipass commands to create a customized virtual machine setups. In each case, a pre-defined cloud-init YAML file is stored in the repository, but users are also free to create and user their own custom cloud-init configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below are some common examples of using `cloud-init` with Multipass to create customized instances. The `cloud-init` file is provided by the Multipass team, but users are free to create and use their own personal `cloud-init` configurations.
```

Author: The paragraph is updated according to the suggestion.

## 📦 anbox-cloud-appliance
Launch with:
```{code-block} text

> multipass launch --name anbox-cloud-appliance --cpus 4 --memory 4G --disk 50G --timeout 900 --cloud-init https://raw.githubusercontent.com/canonical/multipass/refs/heads/cloud-init-yaml/data/cloud-init-yaml/cloud-init-anbox.yaml

Reviewer: Can we break this up into several lines so I can see the whole command without side scrolling?

```
## ⚙️ charm-dev
Launch with:
```{code-block} text
multipass launch 24.04 --name charm-dev --cpus 2 --memory 4G --disk 50G --timeout 1800 --cloud-init https://raw.githubusercontent.com/canonical/multipass/refs/heads/cloud-init-yaml/data/cloud-init-yaml/cloud-init-charm-dev.yaml
```
Health check:
```{code-block} text
multipass exec charm-dev -- bash -c "
 set -e
 charmcraft version
 mkdir -p hello-world
 cd hello-world
 charmcraft init
 charmcraft pack
"
```
## 🐳 docker
Launch with:
```{code-block} text
multipass launch 24.04 --name docker --cpus 2 --memory 4G --disk 40G --cloud-init https://raw.githubusercontent.com/canonical/multipass/refs/heads/cloud-init-yaml/data/cloud-init-yaml/cloud-init-docker.yaml
```
Health check:
```{code-block} text
multipass exec docker -- bash -c "docker run hello-world"
```
You can also optionally add aliases:

```{code-block} text
multipass prefer docker
multipass alias docker:docker docker
multipass alias docker:docker-compose docker-compose
multipass prefer default
multipass aliases
```

> See also [`How to use command aliases`](/how-to-guides/manage-instances/use-instance-command-aliases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> See also: [`How to use command aliases`](/how-to-guides/manage-instances/use-instance-command-aliases)
```
